The Miller Center is a nonpartisan affiliate of the University of Virginia that specializes in presidential scholarship, public policy and political history and strives to apply the lessons of history to the nation’s most pressing contemporary governance challenges.  From presidents Carter, George H.W. Bush, Clinton, and George W. Bush.434-924-7236P.O. Box 400406, Charlottesville, VA 22904In-depth information on each administration.Transcription and analysis of the secret White House tapes.Projects on the Carter, Reagan, George H. W. Bush, Clinton, and
					George W. Bush administrations.Extensive video, audio, and text of presidential speeches.Photographs and pictures of each President and related subjects.Exhibits and lesson plans for students of all ages.The Miller Center is able to work to expand understanding of the
					presidency, policy, and political history only thanks to contributions
					from groups and individuals who support our mission.Please  . . . and thank you!The Miller Center Foundation is a 501(c)(3) charitable supporting foundation
					that serves as the nexus for the Miller Center’s resource development
					program., 
					Washington declares United States neutrality in the face of emerging European conflicts. He warns citizens not to undermine the neutrality of the country at the risk of prosecution.This is a chart of the words used most frequently in this speech. The larger the
				word, the more frequently that it was used. Whereas it appears that a state of war exists between Austria,   Prussia, Sardinia, Great Britain, and the United Netherlands, on the one part,   and France on the other; and the duty and interest of the United States require,   that they should with sincerity and good faith adopt and pursue a conduct friendly   and impartial towards the belligerent powers:  I have therefore thought fit by these presents, to declare the disposition   of the United States to observe the conduct aforesaid towards those powers respectively;   and to exhort and warn the citizens of the United States carefully to avoid   all acts and proceedings whatsoever, which may in any manner tend to contravene   such disposition.  And I do hereby also make known, that whosoever of the citizens of the United   States shall render himself liable to punishment or forfeiture under the law   of nations, by committing, aiding or abetting hostilities against any of the   said powers, or by carrying to any of them, those articles which are deemed   contraband by the modern usage of nations, will not receive the protection of   the United States against such punishment or forfeiture; and further that I   have given instructions to those officers to whom it belongs, to cause prosecutions   to be instituted against all persons, who shall, within the cognizance of the   Courts of the United States, violate the law of nations, with respect to the   powers at war, or any of them.