The Miller Center is a nonpartisan affiliate of the University of Virginia that specializes in presidential scholarship, public policy and political history and strives to apply the lessons of history to the nation’s most pressing contemporary governance challenges.  From presidents Carter, George H.W. Bush, Clinton, and George W. Bush.434-924-7236P.O. Box 400406, Charlottesville, VA 22904In-depth information on each administration.Transcription and analysis of the secret White House tapes.Projects on the Carter, Reagan, George H. W. Bush, Clinton, and
					George W. Bush administrations.Extensive video, audio, and text of presidential speeches.Photographs and pictures of each President and related subjects.Exhibits and lesson plans for students of all ages.The Miller Center is able to work to expand understanding of the
					presidency, policy, and political history only thanks to contributions
					from groups and individuals who support our mission.Please  . . . and thank you!The Miller Center Foundation is a 501(c)(3) charitable supporting foundation
					that serves as the nexus for the Miller Center’s resource development
					program., 
					President Washington returns a congressional redistricting bill citing inconsistencies in the proportion of representatives and the provisions laid out by the Constitution. This is the first presidential veto.This is a chart of the words used most frequently in this speech. The larger the
				word, the more frequently that it was used. Gentlemen of the House of Representatives: I have maturely considered   the Act passed by the two Houses, intitled, "An Act for an apportionment   of Representatives among the several States according to the first enumeration,"   44 and I return it to your House, wherein it originated, with the following   objections.   First: The Constitution has prescribed that Representatives shall be apportioned   among the several States, according to their respective Numbers: and there is   no one proportion or division which, applied to the respective numbers of the   States, will yield the number and allotment of Representatives proposed by the   bill.  Second. The Constitution has also provided that the number of Representatives   shall not exceed one for every thirty thousand: which restriction is, by the   context, and by fair and obvious construction, to be applied to the seperate   and respective numbers of the States: and the bill has allotted to eight of   the States more than one for thirty thousand. 