The Miller Center is a nonpartisan affiliate of the University of Virginia that specializes in presidential scholarship, public policy and political history and strives to apply the lessons of history to the nation’s most pressing contemporary governance challenges.  From presidents Carter, George H.W. Bush, Clinton, and George W. Bush.434-924-7236P.O. Box 400406, Charlottesville, VA 22904In-depth information on each administration.Transcription and analysis of the secret White House tapes.Projects on the Carter, Reagan, George H. W. Bush, Clinton, and
					George W. Bush administrations.Extensive video, audio, and text of presidential speeches.Photographs and pictures of each President and related subjects.Exhibits and lesson plans for students of all ages.The Miller Center is able to work to expand understanding of the
					presidency, policy, and political history only thanks to contributions
					from groups and individuals who support our mission.Please  . . . and thank you!The Miller Center Foundation is a 501(c)(3) charitable supporting foundation
					that serves as the nexus for the Miller Center’s resource development
					program., 
					Washington issues a pardon to those accused of treason in the Whiskey Rebellion.This is a chart of the words used most frequently in this speech. The larger the
				word, the more frequently that it was used. Whereas the commissioners appointed by the President of the United   States to confer with the citizens in the western counties of Pennsylvania during   the late insurrection which prevailed therein, by their act and agreement bearing   date the 2d day of September last, in pursuance of the powers in them vested,   did promise and engage that if assurances of submission to the laws of the United   States should be bona fide given by the citizens resident in the fourth survey   of Pennsylvania, in the manner and within the time in the said act and agreement   specified, a general pardon should be granted on the 10th day of July then next   ensuing of all treasons and other indictable offenses against the United States   committed within the said survey before the 22d day of August last, excluding   therefrom, nevertheless, every person who should refuse or neglect to subscribe   such assurance and engagement in manner aforesaid, or who should after such   subscription violate the same, or will fully obstruct or attempt to obstruct   the execution of the acts for raising a revenue on distilled spirits and stills,   or be aiding or abetting therein; and  Whereas I have since thought proper to extend' the said pardon to all persons   guilty of the said treasons, misprisions of treasons, or otherwise concerned   in the late insurrection within the survey aforesaid who have not since been   indicted or convicted thereof, or of any other offense against the United States:  Therefore be it known that I, George Washington, President of the said United   States, have granted, and by these presents do grant, a full, free, and entire   pardon to all persons (excepting as is hereinafter excepted) of all treasons,   misprisions of treason, and other indictable offenses against the United States   committed within the fourth survey of Pennsylvania before the said 22d day of   August last past, excepting and excluding therefrom, nevertheless, every person   who refused or neglected to give and subscribe the said assurances in the manner   aforesaid (or having subscribed hath violated the same) and now standeth indicted   or convicted of any treason, misprision of treason, or other offense against   the said United States, hereby remitting and releasing unto all persons, except   as before excepted, all penalties incurred, or supposed to be incurred, for   or on account of the premises.