The Miller Center is a nonpartisan affiliate of the University of Virginia that specializes in presidential scholarship, public policy and political history and strives to apply the lessons of history to the nation’s most pressing contemporary governance challenges.  From presidents Carter, George H.W. Bush, Clinton, and George W. Bush.434-924-7236P.O. Box 400406, Charlottesville, VA 22904In-depth information on each administration.Transcription and analysis of the secret White House tapes.Projects on the Carter, Reagan, George H. W. Bush, Clinton, and
					George W. Bush administrations.Extensive video, audio, and text of presidential speeches.Photographs and pictures of each President and related subjects.Exhibits and lesson plans for students of all ages.The Miller Center is able to work to expand understanding of the
					presidency, policy, and political history only thanks to contributions
					from groups and individuals who support our mission.Please  . . . and thank you!The Miller Center Foundation is a 501(c)(3) charitable supporting foundation
					that serves as the nexus for the Miller Center’s resource development
					program., 
					At the request of Congress, Washington establishes November 26th as a national holiday of thanks to God for the successful establishment of the Constitution and government and the liberties the citizens enjoy under the new United States.This is a chart of the words used most frequently in this speech. The larger the
				word, the more frequently that it was used.Whereas it is the duty of all Nations to acknowledge the providence    of Almighty God, to obey his will, to be grateful for his benefits, and humbly    to implore his protection and favor, and Whereas both Houses of Congress have    by their joint Committee requested me "to recommend to the People of    the United States a day of public thanks-giving and prayer to be observed by    acknowledging with grateful hearts the many signal favors of Almighty God, especially    by affording them an opportunity peaceably to establish a form of government    for their safety and happiness."Now therefore I do recommend and assign Thursday the 26th day of November next    to be devoted by the People of these States to the service of that great and    glorious Being, who is the beneficent Author of all the good that was, that    is, or that will be. That we may then all unite in rendering unto him our sincere    and humble thanks, for his kind care and protection of the People of this country    previous to their becoming a Nation, for the signal and manifold mercies, and    the favorable interpositions of his providence, which we experienced in the    course and conclusion of the late war, for the great degree of tranquillity,    union, and plenty, which we have since enjoyed, for the peaceable and rational    manner in which we have been enabled to establish constitutions of government    for our safety and happiness, and particularly the national One now lately instituted,    for the civil and religious liberty with which we are blessed, and the means    we have of acquiring and diffusing useful knowledge and in general for all the    great and various favors which he hath been pleased to confer upon us.And also that we may then unite in most humbly offering our prayers and supplications    to the great Lord and Ruler of Nations and beseech him to pardon our national    and other transgressions, to enable us all, whether in public or private stations,    to perform our several and relative duties properly and punctually, to render    our national government a blessing to all the People, by constantly being a    government of wise, just and constitutional laws, discreetly and faithfully    executed and obeyed, to protect and guide all Sovereigns and Nations (especially    such as have shown kindness unto us) and to bless them with good government,    peace, and concord. To promote the knowledge and practice of true religion and    virtue, and the encrease of science among them and Us, and generally to grant    unto all Mankind such a degree of temporal prosperity as he alone knows to be    best.