The Miller Center is a nonpartisan affiliate of the University of Virginia that specializes in presidential scholarship, public policy and political history and strives to apply the lessons of history to the nation’s most pressing contemporary governance challenges.  From presidents Carter, George H.W. Bush, Clinton, and George W. Bush.434-924-7236P.O. Box 400406, Charlottesville, VA 22904In-depth information on each administration.Transcription and analysis of the secret White House tapes.Projects on the Carter, Reagan, George H. W. Bush, Clinton, and
					George W. Bush administrations.Extensive video, audio, and text of presidential speeches.Photographs and pictures of each President and related subjects.Exhibits and lesson plans for students of all ages.The Miller Center is able to work to expand understanding of the
					presidency, policy, and political history only thanks to contributions
					from groups and individuals who support our mission.Please  . . . and thank you!The Miller Center Foundation is a 501(c)(3) charitable supporting foundation
					that serves as the nexus for the Miller Center’s resource development
					program., 
					Offering a reward for the capture of American citizens who attacked a Cherokee town, Washington urges American citizens to maintain the peace and the good faith of the United States.This is a chart of the words used most frequently in this speech. The larger the
				word, the more frequently that it was used. Whereas I have received authentic information, that certain lawless   and wicked persons, of the western frontier in the State of Georgia, did lately   invade, burn, and destroy a town belonging to the Cherokee nation, although   in amity with the United States, and put to death several Indians of that nation;   and whereas such outrageous conduct not only violates the rights of humanity,   but also endangers the public peace, and it highly becomes the honor and good   faith of the United States to pursue all legal means for the punishment of those   atrocious offenders; I have, therefore, thought fit to issue this my proclamation,   hereby exhorting all the citizens of the United States, and requiring all the   officers thereof, according to their respective stations, to use their utmost   endeavours to bring those offenders to justice. And I do moreover offer a reward   of five hundred dollars for each and every of the above-named persons, who shall   be so apprehended and brought to justice, and shall be proved to have assumed   or exercised any command or authority among the perpetrators of the crimes aforesaid,   at the time of committing the same. 