The Miller Center is a nonpartisan affiliate of the University of Virginia that specializes in presidential scholarship, public policy and political history and strives to apply the lessons of history to the nation’s most pressing contemporary governance challenges.  From presidents Carter, George H.W. Bush, Clinton, and George W. Bush.434-924-7236P.O. Box 400406, Charlottesville, VA 22904In-depth information on each administration.Transcription and analysis of the secret White House tapes.Projects on the Carter, Reagan, George H. W. Bush, Clinton, and
					George W. Bush administrations.Extensive video, audio, and text of presidential speeches.Photographs and pictures of each President and related subjects.Exhibits and lesson plans for students of all ages.The Miller Center is able to work to expand understanding of the
					presidency, policy, and political history only thanks to contributions
					from groups and individuals who support our mission.Please  . . . and thank you!The Miller Center Foundation is a 501(c)(3) charitable supporting foundation
					that serves as the nexus for the Miller Center’s resource development
					program., 
					Roosevelt calls for a special session of Congress to approve the reciprocal Commercial Convention between the United States and Cuba.This is a chart of the words used most frequently in this speech. The larger the
				word, the more frequently that it was used.By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
Whereas, by the resolution of the Senate of March 19, 1903, the approval by Congress of the reciprocal Commercial Convention between the United States and the Republic of Cuba, signed at Havana on December 11, 1902, is necessary before the said Convention shall take effect;
And Whereas, it is important to the public interests of the United States that the said Convention shall become operative as early as may be;
Now, Therefore, I, Theodore Roosevelt, President of the United States of America, by virtue of the power vested in me by the Constitution, do hereby proclaim and declare that an extraordinary occasion requires the convening of both Houses of the Congress of the United States at their respective Chambers in the city of Washington on the 9th day of November next, at 12 o'clock noon, to the end that they may consider and determine whether the approval of the Congress shall be given to the said Convention.
All persons entitled to act as members of the 58th Congress are required to take notice of this proclamation.
Given under my hand and the Seal of the United States at Washington the 20th day of October in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and three and of the Independence of the United States the one hundred and twenty-eighth.THEODORE ROOSEVELT
By the President:
JOHN HAY,
Secretary of State.