The Miller Center is a nonpartisan affiliate of the University of Virginia that specializes in presidential scholarship, public policy and political history and strives to apply the lessons of history to the nation’s most pressing contemporary governance challenges.  From presidents Carter, George H.W. Bush, Clinton, and George W. Bush.434-924-7236P.O. Box 400406, Charlottesville, VA 22904In-depth information on each administration.Transcription and analysis of the secret White House tapes.Projects on the Carter, Reagan, George H. W. Bush, Clinton, and
					George W. Bush administrations.Extensive video, audio, and text of presidential speeches.Photographs and pictures of each President and related subjects.Exhibits and lesson plans for students of all ages.The Miller Center is able to work to expand understanding of the
					presidency, policy, and political history only thanks to contributions
					from groups and individuals who support our mission.Please  . . . and thank you!The Miller Center Foundation is a 501(c)(3) charitable supporting foundation
					that serves as the nexus for the Miller Center’s resource development
					program., 
					Senator Harding argued that a “covenant of conscience” rather than a written compact—which would surrender freedom of action and give a military alliance the right to proclaim America’s duty to the world as in Article 10 of the Covenant of the League of Nations—would be in the best interests of the U.S. The Republican candidate was proposing a separate American peace with the German government, subsequently accomplished by the Treaty of Berlin of 1921.  He also hinted of his desire to bring about a reduction of armament and to decrease the possibility of a renewed arms race and the resultant threat to world peace and burden on financial resources, an accomplishment of the Conference on the Limitation of Armament, 1921-22.This transcript contains the published text of the speech, not the actual words spoken. There may be some differences between the transcript and the audio/video content.This is a chart of the words used most frequently in this speech. The larger the
				word, the more frequently that it was used.My countrymen, we believe the unspeakable sorrows, the immeasurable sacrifices, the awakened convictions, and the aspiring conscience of humankind must commit the nations of the earth to a new and better relationship.  It need not be discussed now what motives plunged the world into war.  It need not be inquired whether we asked the sons of this republic to defend our national rights, as I believe we did, or to purge the Old World of the accumulated ills of rivalry and greed.  The sacrifices will be in vain if we cannot acclaim a new order with added security to civilization and peace maintained.One may readily sense the conscience of our America.  I am sure I understand the purpose of the dominant group of the Senate.  We were not seeking to defeat a world aspiration.  We were resolved to safeguard America.  We were resolved then even as we are today, and will be tomorrow, to preserve this free and independent republic.  Let those now responsible or seeking responsibility propose the surrender--whether with interpretations, apologies, or reluctant reservations--from which our rights are to be omitted.  We welcome the referendum to the American people on the preservation of America, and the Republican party pledges its defense of the preserved inheritance of national freedom.In the call of the conscience of America is peace.  Peace that closes the gaping wound of world war and silences the impassioned voices of international envy and distrust.  Heeding this call, and knowing as I do the disposition of Congress, I promise you formal and effective peace so quickly as the Republican Congress can pass its declaration for a Republican executive to sign.  Then we may turn to our readjustment at home and proceed deliberately and reflectively to that hoped for world relationship which shall satisfy both conscience and aspirations, and still hold us free from menacing involvement.I can hear in the call of conscience an insistent voice for the largely reduced armaments throughout the world, with attending reduction of burdens upon peace-loving humanity.  We wish to give of American influence and example.  We must give of American leadership to that invaluable accomplishment.  I can speak unreservedly of the American aspirations and the Republican committal for an association of nations cooperating in sublime accord to attain and preserve peace through justice rather than force, determined to add to security through international law, so clarified that no misconstruction can be possible without affronting world honor.  It is better to be the free and disinterested agents of international justice and advancing civilization with the covenant of conscience, than to be shackled by a written compact which surrenders our freedom of action and gives the military alliance the right to proclaim America's duty to the world.No surrender of rights to a world council or its military alliance, no assumed mandatory, however appealing, ever shall summon the sons of this republic to war*.  Their supreme sacrifice shall be only asked for America and its call of honor.  There is sanctity in that right which we will not surrender to any other power on earth.*see Covenant of the League of Nations, Article 10