The Miller Center is a nonpartisan affiliate of the University of Virginia that specializes in presidential scholarship, public policy and political history and strives to apply the lessons of history to the nation’s most pressing contemporary governance challenges.  From presidents Carter, George H.W. Bush, Clinton, and George W. Bush.434-924-7236P.O. Box 400406, Charlottesville, VA 22904In-depth information on each administration.Transcription and analysis of the secret White House tapes.Projects on the Carter, Reagan, George H. W. Bush, Clinton, and
					George W. Bush administrations.Extensive video, audio, and text of presidential speeches.Photographs and pictures of each President and related subjects.Exhibits and lesson plans for students of all ages.The Miller Center is able to work to expand understanding of the
					presidency, policy, and political history only thanks to contributions
					from groups and individuals who support our mission.Please  . . . and thank you!The Miller Center Foundation is a 501(c)(3) charitable supporting foundation
					that serves as the nexus for the Miller Center’s resource development
					program., 
					President Roosevelt requests for Congress to declare a state of war on both Germany and Italy following their declarations of war against the United States.  The United States became involved in a true world war, fighting multiple countries on multiple continents. This is a chart of the words used most frequently in this speech. The larger the
				word, the more frequently that it was used.To the Congress:On the morning of December eleventh, the Government of Germany, pursuing its course of world conquest, declared war against the United States.The long known and the long expected has thus taken place. The forces endeavoring to enslave the entire world now are moving toward this hemisphere.Never before has there been a greater challenge to life, liberty, and civilization.Delay invites greater danger. Rapid and united effort by all of the peoples of the world who are determined to remain free will insure a world victory of the forces of justice and of righteousness over the forces of savagery and of barbarism.Italy also has declared war against the United States.I therefore request the Congress to recognize a state of war between the United States and Germany, and between the United States and Italy.