The Miller Center is a nonpartisan affiliate of the University of Virginia that specializes in presidential scholarship, public policy and political history and strives to apply the lessons of history to the nation’s most pressing contemporary governance challenges.  From presidents Carter, George H.W. Bush, Clinton, and George W. Bush.434-924-7236P.O. Box 400406, Charlottesville, VA 22904In-depth information on each administration.Transcription and analysis of the secret White House tapes.Projects on the Carter, Reagan, George H. W. Bush, Clinton, and
					George W. Bush administrations.Extensive video, audio, and text of presidential speeches.Photographs and pictures of each President and related subjects.Exhibits and lesson plans for students of all ages.The Miller Center is able to work to expand understanding of the
					presidency, policy, and political history only thanks to contributions
					from groups and individuals who support our mission.Please  . . . and thank you!The Miller Center Foundation is a 501(c)(3) charitable supporting foundation
					that serves as the nexus for the Miller Center’s resource development
					program., 
					Lincoln delivered his "House Divided" speech upon accepting the Republican nomination for Senate in Springfield, Illinois. In this speech he famously states "a house divided against itself cannot stand" in describing the coming national conflict over slavery.This is a chart of the words used most frequently in this speech. The larger the
				word, the more frequently that it was used.Mr. PRESIDENT and Gentlemen of the Convention.If we could first know  we are, and  we are tending, we could then better judge  to do, and  to do it.We are now far into the  year, since a policy was initiated, with the  object, and  promise, of putting an end to slavery agitation.Under the operation of that policy, that agitation has not only, , but has .In opinion, it not cease, until a shall have been reached and passed."A house divided against itself cannot stand."I believe this government cannot endure, permanently half  and half .I do not expect the Union to be I do not expect the house to but I  expect it will cease to be divided.It will become  one thing, or  the other.Either the  of slavery, will arrest the further spread of it, and place it where the public mind shall rest in the belief that it is in course of ultimate extinction; or its  will push it forward, till it shall become alike lawful in  the States,  as well as  as well as .Have we no  to the latter condition?Let any one who doubts, carefully contemplate that now almost complete legal combination--piece of  so to speak--compounded of the Nebraska doctrine, and the Dred Scott decision. Let him consider not only  the machinery is adapted to do, and  adapted; but also, let him study the  of its construction, and trace, if he can, or rather , if he can, to trace the evidences of design, and concert of action, among its chief bosses, from the beginning.But, so far,  only, had acted; and an  by the people,  or apparent, was indispensable, to  the point already gained, and give chance for more.The new year of 1854 found slavery excluded from more than half the States by State Constitutions, and from most of the national territory by Congressional prohibition.Four days later, commenced the struggle, which ended in repealing that Congressional prohibition.This opened all the national territory to slavery, and was the first point gained.This necessity had not been overlooked; but had been provided for, as well as might be, in the notable argument of  otherwise called which latter phrase, though expressive of the only rightful basis of any government, was so perverted in this attempted use of it as to amount to just this: That if any  man, choose to enslave , no  man shall be allowed to object.That argument was incorporated into the Nebraska bill itself, in the language which follows: Then opened the roar of loose declamation in favor of "Squatter Sovereignty," and "Sacred right of self government.""But," said opposition members, "let us be more --let us  the bill so as to expressly declare that the people of the territory  exclude slavery." "Not we," said the friends of the measure; and down they voted the amendment.While the Nebraska bill was passing through congress, a , involving the question of a negroe's freedom, by reason of his owner having voluntarily taken him first into a free state and then a territory covered by the congressional prohibition, and held him as a slave, for a long time in each, was passing through the U.S. Circuit Court for the District of Missouri; and both Nebraska bill and law suit were brought to a decision in the same month of May, 1854. The negroe's name was "Dred Scott," which name now designates the decision finally made in the case. the  next Presidential election, the law case came , and was argued  the Supreme Court of the United States; but the  of it was deferred until  the election. Still,  the election, Senator Trumbull, on the floor of the Senate, requests the leading advocate of the Nebraska bill to state  whether the people of a territory can constitutionally exclude slavery from their limits; and the latter answers, "That is a question for the Supreme Court."The election came. Mr. Buchanan was elected, and the , such as it was, secured. That was the  point gained. The indorsement, however, fell short of a clear popular majority by nearly four hundred thousand votes, and so, perhaps, was not overwhelmingly reliable and satisfactory.The  President, in his last annual message, as impressively as possible  upon the people the  and  of the indorsement.The Supreme Court met again;  announce their decision, but ordered a re-argument.The Presidential inauguration came, and still no decision of the court; but the  President, in his inaugural address, fervently exhorted the people to abide by the forthcoming decision, .Then, in a few days, came the decision.The reputed author of the Nebraska bill finds an early occasion to make a speech at this capitol indorsing the Dred Scott Decision, and vehemently denouncing all opposition to it.The new President, too, seizes the early occasion of the Silliman letter to  and strongly  that decision, and to express his  that any different view had ever been entertained.At length a squabble springs up between the President and the author of the Nebraska bill, on the  question of , whether the Lecompton constitution was or was not, in any just sense, made by the people of Kansas; and in that squabble the latter declares that all he wants is a fair vote for the people, and that he  not whether slavery be voted  or voted . I do not understand his declaration that he cares not whether slavery be voted down or voted up, to be intended by him other than as an  of the  he would impress upon the public mind--the  for which he declares he has suffered much, and is ready to suffer to the end.And well may he cling to that principle. If he has any parental feeling, well may he cling to it. That principle, is the only  left of his original Nebraska doctrine. Under the Dred Scott decision, "squatter sovereignty" squatted out of existence, tumbled down like temporary scaffolding--like the mould at the foundry served through one blast and fell back into loose sand--helped to carry an election, and then was kicked to the winds. His late  struggle with the Republicans, against the Lecompton Constitution, involves nothing of the original Nebraska doctrine. That struggle was made on a point, the right of a people to make their own constitution, upon which he and the Republicans have never differed.The several points of the Dred Scott decision, in connection with Senator Douglas' "care not" policy, constitute the piece of machinery, in its  state of advancement. This was the third point gained.The  points of that machinery are:First, that no negro slave, imported as such from Africa, and no descendant of such slave can ever be a  of any State, in the sense of that term as used in the Constitution of the United States.This point is made in order to deprive the negro, in every possible event, of the benefit of this provision of the United States Constitution, which declares that--"The citizens of each State shall be entitled to all privileges and immunities of citizens in the several States."Secondly, that "subject to the Constitution of the United States," neither  nor a  can exclude slavery from any United States territory.This point is made in order that individual men may  the territories with slaves, without danger of losing them as property, and thus to enhance the chances of  to the institution through all the future.Thirdly, that whether the holding a negro in actual slavery in a free State, makes him free, as against the holder, the United States courts will not decide, but will leave to be decided by the courts of any slave State the negro may be forced into by the master.This point is made, not to be pressed ; but, if acquiesced in for a while, and apparently  by the people at an election,  to sustain the logical conclusion that what Dred Scott's master might lawfully do with Dred Scott, in the free State of Illinois, every other master may lawfully do with any other , or one  slaves, in Illinois, or in any other free State.Auxiliary to all this, and working hand in hand with it, the Nebraska doctrine, or what is left of it, is to  and  public opinion, at least  public opinion, to not  whether slavery is voted  or voted .This shows exactly where we now ; and  also, whither we are tending.It will throw additional light on the latter, to go back, and run the mind over the string of historical facts already stated. Several things will  appear less  and  than they did  they were transpiring. The people were to be left "perfectly free" "subject only to the Constitution." What the  had to do with it, outsiders could not  see. Plainly enough , it was an exactly fitted , for the Dred Scott decision to afterwards come in, and declare the  of the people, to be just no freedom at all.Why was the amendment, expressly declaring the right of the people to exclude slavery, voted down? Plainly enough , the adoption of it, would have spoiled the niche for the Dred Scott decision.Why was the court decision held up? Why, even a Senator's individual opinion withheld, till  the Presidential election? Plainly enough , the speaking out  would have damaged the  argument upon which the election was to be carried.Why the  President's felicitation on the indorsement? Why the delay of a reargument? Why the incoming President's  exhortation in favor of the decision?These things  like the cautious  and  a spirited horse, preparatory to mounting him, when it is dreaded that he may give the rider a fall.And why the hasty after indorsements of the decision by the President and others?We can not absolutely  that all these exact adaptations are the result of preconcert. But when we see a lot of framed timbers, different portions of which we know have been gotten out at different times and places and by different workmen--Stephen, Franklin, Roger and James, for instance--and when we see these timbers joined together, and see they exactly make the frame of a house or a mill, all the tenons and mortices exactly fitting, and all the lengths and proportions of the different pieces exactly adapted to their respective places, and not a piece too many or too few--not omitting even scaffolding--or, if a single piece be lacking, we can see the place in the frame exactly fitted and prepared to yet bring such piece in--in  a case, we find it impossible to not  that Stephen and Franklin and Roger and James all understood one another from the beginning, and all worked upon a common  or  drawn up before the first lick was struck.It should not be overlooked that, by the Nebraska bill, the people of a  as well as , were to be left Why mention a ? They were legislating for , and not  or  States. Certainly the people of a State  and  subject to the Constitution of the United States; but why is mention of this  into this merely  law? Why are the people of a  and the people of a  therein  together, and their relation to the Constitution therein treated as being  the same?While the opinion of , by Chief Justice Taney, in the Dred Scott case, and the separate opinions of all the concurring Judges, expressly declare that the Constitution of the United States neither permits Congress nor a Territorial legislature to exclude slavery from any United States territory, they all  to declare whether or not the same Constitution permits a , or the people of a State, to exclude it., this was a mere ; but who can be  sure, if McLean or Curtis had sought to get into the opinion a declaration of unlimited power in the people of a  to exclude slavery from their limits, just as Chase and Macy sought to get such declaration, in behalf of the people of a territory, into the Nebraska bill--I ask, who can be quite  that it would not have been voted down, in the one case, as it had been in the other.The nearest approach to the point of declaring the power of a State over slavery, is made by Judge Nelson. He approaches it more than once, using the precise idea, and  the language too, of the Nebraska act. On one occasion his exact language is, "except in cases where the power is restrained by the Constitution of the United States, the law of the State is supreme over the subject of slavery within its jurisdiction."In what  the power of the  so restrained by the U.S. Constitution, is left an  question, precisely as the same question, as to the restraint on the power of the  was left open in the Nebraska act. Put  and  together, and we have another nice little niche, which we may, ere long, see filled with another Supreme Court decision, declaring that the Constitution of the United States does not permit a  to exclude slavery from its limits.And this may especially be expected if the doctrine of "care not whether slavery be voted  or voted  shall gain upon the public mind sufficiently to give promise that such a decision can be maintained when made.Such a decision is all that slavery now lacks of being alike lawful in all the States.Welcome or unwelcome, such decision  probably coming, and will soon be upon us, unless the power of the present political dynasty shall be met and overthrown.We shall  pleasantly dreaming that the people of  are on the verge of making their State ; and we shall  to the , instead, that the  Court has made  a  State.To meet and overthrow the power of that dynasty, is the work now before all those who would prevent that consummation.That is  we have to do.But  can we best do it?There are those who denounce us  to their  friends, and yet whisper , that  is the  instrument there is, with which to effect that object.  do  tell us, nor has  told us, that he  any such object to be effected. They wish us to  all, from the facts, that he now has a little quarrel with the present head of the dynasty; and that he has regularly voted with us, on a single point, upon which, he and we, have never differed.They remind us that  is a very , and that the largest of  are very small ones. Let this be granted. But "a  is better than a ." Judge Douglas, if not a  lion , is at least a  and  one. How can he oppose the advances of slavery? He don't  anything about it. His avowed  the "public heart" to  nothing about it.A leading Douglas Democratic newspaper thinks Douglas' superior talent will be needed to resist the revival of the African slave trade.Does Douglas believe an effort to revive that trade is approaching? He has not said so. Does he  think so? But if it is, how can he resist it? For years he has labored to prove it a  of white men to take negro slaves into the new territories. Can he possibly show that it is  a sacred right to  them where they can be bought cheapest? And, unquestionably they can be bought  than in .He has done all in his power to reduce the whole question of slavery to one of a mere ; and as such, how can  oppose the foreign slave trade--how can he refuse that trade in that "property" shall be "perfectly free"--unless he does it as a  to the home production? And as the home  will probably not  the protection, he will be wholly without a ground of opposition.Senator Douglas holds, we know, that a man may rightfully be  than he was --that he may rightfully  when he finds himself wrong.But, can we for that reason, run ahead, and  that he  make any particular change, of which he, himself, has given no intimation? Can we  base  action upon any such  inference?Now, as ever, I wish to not  Judge Douglas' , question his , or do ought that can be personally offensive to him.Whenever, , he and we can come together on  so that  may have assistance from , I hope to have interposed no adventitious obstacle.But clearly, he is not  with us--he does not  to be--he does not  to  be.Our cause, then, must be intrusted to, and conducted by its own undoubted friends--those whose hands are free, whose hearts are in the work--who  for the result.Two years ago the Republicans of the nation mustered over thirteen hundred thousand strong.We did this under the single impulse of resistance to a common danger, with every external circumstance against us.Of , and even,  elements, we gathered from the four winds, and  and fought the battle through, under the constant hot fire of a disciplined, proud, and pampered enemy.Did we brave all , to  now?----when that same enemy is , dissevered and belligerent?The result is not doubtful. We shall not fail--if we stand firm, we shall not fail.   may  or  it, but, sooner or later the victory is  to come.