The Miller Center is a nonpartisan affiliate of the University of Virginia that specializes in presidential scholarship, public policy and political history and strives to apply the lessons of history to the nation’s most pressing contemporary governance challenges.  From presidents Carter, George H.W. Bush, Clinton, and George W. Bush.434-924-7236P.O. Box 400406, Charlottesville, VA 22904In-depth information on each administration.Transcription and analysis of the secret White House tapes.Projects on the Carter, Reagan, George H. W. Bush, Clinton, and
					George W. Bush administrations.Extensive video, audio, and text of presidential speeches.Photographs and pictures of each President and related subjects.Exhibits and lesson plans for students of all ages.The Miller Center is able to work to expand understanding of the
					presidency, policy, and political history only thanks to contributions
					from groups and individuals who support our mission.Please  . . . and thank you!The Miller Center Foundation is a 501(c)(3) charitable supporting foundation
					that serves as the nexus for the Miller Center’s resource development
					program., 
					Responding to a supportive letter from the Danbury Baptist Association in Connecticut, Jefferson admires the "wall of separation between church and state" established by the First Amendment. The President wanted to reprimand the large number of clerics that mixed religion and politics in that part of the nation, especially those that publicly opposed his beliefs on the subject. This is a chart of the words used most frequently in this speech. The larger the
				word, the more frequently that it was used. GENTLEMAN,  The affectionate sentiments of esteem and approbation which you are so good   as to express towards me, on behalf of the Danbury Baptist Association, give   me the highest satisfaction. My duties dictate a faithful and zealous pursuit   of the interests of my constituents, and in proportion as they are persuaded   of my fidelity to those duties, the discharge of them becomes more and more   pleasing.  Believing with you that religion is a matter which lies solely between man   and his God, that he owes account to none other for his faith or his worship,   that the legislative powers of government reach actions only, and not opinions,   I contemplate with sovereign reverence that act of the whole American people   which declared that their legislature should "make no law respecting an   establishment of religion, or prohibiting the free exercise thereof," thus   building a wall of separation between church and State. Adhering to this expression   of the supreme will of the nation in behalf of the rights of conscience, I shall   see with sincere satisfaction the progress of those sentiments which tend to   restore to man all his natural rights, convinced he has no natural right in   opposition to his social duties.  I reciprocate your kind prayers for the protection and blessing of the common   Father and Creator of man, and tender you for yourselves and your religious   association, assurances of my high respect and esteem. 